Add documentation for WiiM integration to next branch (#40084)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/wiim.markdown

---
title: WiiM
description: Instructions on how to integrate WiiM devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media player
ha_domain: wiim
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_integration_type: hub

> ha_release: 2026.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.4
```

> ha_release: 2025.5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_integration_type: hub
ha_release: 2026.2
```

ha_codeowners:
  - '@Linkplay'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
  - button
ha_iot_class: Local Push
---

> The `wiim` integration for Home Assistant allows you to control different WiiM devices. The integration supports auto-discovery on your local network through [Zeroconf](/integrations/zeroconf), allowing you to seamlessly control your [WiiM](https://www.wiimhome.com) wireless speakers from Home Assistant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **WiiM** {% term integration %} allows you to control different [WiiM](https://www.wiimhome.com) devices from Home Assistant.
```
I would remove the second sentence. IMO, Zeroconf is too much implementation detail for a high-level introduction, and also too technical for user documentation.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

### Media Player 

The media player entity gives you complete control over your WiiM device from Home Assistant. In addition to standard playback functionality, it offers:

> - **Playback Controls**: Control playback state, skip tracks, adjust volume, seek, select sound modes, and set repeat or shuffle modes directly from the Home Assistant UI or automations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Playback controls: Control playback state, skip tracks, adjust volume, seek, select sound modes, and set repeat or shuffle modes directly from the Home Assistant UI or automations.
```
- We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization)
- We use [bold to markup UI strings](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide). If possible, we avoid using it to highlight text or using it instead of a title. Please fix throughout the page.

- **Multiroom Audio**: Seamlessly group multiple WiiM devices to create synchronized multiroom playback. Use the standard Home Assistant services: `media_player.join` and `media_player.unjoin`.

- **Media Browsing**: Browse presets, playlists, and the device’s current playback queue, enabling dynamic selection of media from the Home Assistant interface.

### Buttons

The button entities provide some additional WiiM features available on the device:

- **Time Sync**: Synchronizes the device’s internal clock with the current time on your Home Assistant server, ensuring features like scheduled playback or time-based automations remain accurate. 
- **Restart Device**: Reboots the device remotely, providing a quick way to recover from connectivity issues or apply configuration changes without physical interaction.

## Actions

The WiiM integration makes various custom actions available in addition to the [standard media player actions](/integrations/media_player/#actions).

> 

Reviewer: @Linkplay2020 Are there any [actions](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L135) you could add to this section?

> 

Reviewer 3: @fdmarcin We require new integrations to be as minimal as possible (to keep PR sizes as small as possible). There are no actions for new integrations; those could potentially be added in followups.

../Frenck  

<p>
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/frenck/"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/linkedin.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://youtube.com/@frenck"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/youtube.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://bsky.app/profile/frenck.social"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/bluesky.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://fosstodon.org/@frenck"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/mastodon.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.instagram.com/frenck/"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/instagram.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.threads.net/@frenck"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/threads.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.facebook.com/frenck.dev/"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/facebook.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://x.com/frenck"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/x.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://www.tiktok.com/@frenck.nl"><img src="https://github.com/frenck/frenck/raw/main/images/tiktok.svg" width="18" height="18"></a>
</p>

Blogging my personal ramblings at <a href="https://frenck.dev">frenck.dev</a>

> 

Reviewer: @frenck Thanks! In this case, this looks good to merge :rocket:
